All right. I've loaded up the starter
project, which you can access just above
this video. So I'll load that up too.
Follow along. You'll see that when we
click Run, it just displays the flower
character. Now, it has
all the animations, not just a single
one. We want to have just a single
character. The way we're going to do that
is by cropping.
You may be familiar with how cropping
works. Essentially what we're doing is
we're going to take this image and
we're going to cut it
into pieces. And now we just
have a single character that we can
move around and display on the screen.
Then what we can do is we can move the
cropped region. And if we do this
fast enough and enough times, we can
achieve animation like this.
In this example, you can see now
back to the project. This is how
we do this. What we're going to do is
we're going to add some more parameters.
So this 0, 0, 128,
128, that's
going to cut out the first section
of our character.
If you remember cropping. That's
essentially what we're doing. The
0, 0 is the
cropping location,
128 is the size of the crop,
and then the rest of that is the size of
the image and the image's location.
Now, we're going to start
animating this. Let animation
equal zero, let seed equal zero.
Now, repeat forever,
function forever,
We're going to do an animation modulus.
I'll explain that in a second. C++.
If c mod 6
equals 0, then
animation++.
Draw.background. Let's do
light green. It's a nice grass color.
Now, modulus.
Modulus is a mathematical term that's
like a clock. If you look at 11, if you
were to add 2, you'd get 1.
This is the idea of modulus. It
loops in a circle every time you add 1.
Uh In the case of programming, it starts
at 0, though. So
let spidx equal
animation. modulus five
because there's five images in
the flower character. Now draw image
flower character dot PNG.
We're going to draw them 0 plus
128 times SPIDX
0, 128, 128,
0, 0, 128, 128.
Now we can delete that test image.
And when we click Run, we see that
it's now looping through everything in
our animation.
I can clean this up a little bit. So
we can adjust the modulus slightly to
get faster or slower animation.
Basically, that's what it's basically
just saying, wait this many frames before
increasing.